---
layout: post
title:  "Week 1"
date:   2020-08-15
categories: jekyll update
---

## The Beginning 

Time seemed to go much faster from Mid May! This was when we started having the weekly introductory zoom calls, and at that point it felt like we were making progress towards the beginning of the course. 

Once we had completed all of the calls, it was time to begin the course! 3 months after we should have started, it was such a relief to be able to log on to zoom on 15th June 2020 to begin my cloud journey! We finally met (via zoom!) our teacher aswell, and began to learn about Computing. This would have been different for every single one of us, because we all came from different backgrounds and thus had different routes into tech. 

In fact, the beauty of the AWS Re/Start course is that everyone has arrived at the beginning of the course at different ages, life stages, skill levels and from different industries (if not out of work, like me!)

In one sense, this is really good, because the focus of the course is on diversity, and if everyone is from a different background, then it means the employers who we will be joining will be made more diverse by hiring any of us. By week 12, the aim is that we will be comfortable enough to talk about technology with potential employers, and we have had mock interviews, focusing on both our interpersonal and technical skills. 

At the end of the course, you will not be expected to know everything there is to know about AWS or other parts of technology! Tech is constantly changing, and there are so many parts that you can go into. The aim of the course is to set us on that journey, and then we will have the skills and the confidence to be able to complete our own projects and teach ourselves new languages and skills to be able to build further on the foundations. 

In week 1, we learn about Linux, an operating system which many people will be familiar with, if they have a non-windows computer or Android Phone. The focus of Linux is very much on its open source and accessible nature, and there are hence many alternatives to popular licenced services such as Microsoft Word and Powerpoint, which are able to be downloaded and configured according to the user's needs and requirements, and most importantly, do not cost anything to download. There are different versions of Linux, all aimed at different segments. For example, Experienced Linux users might require more customisation and hence go for the CentOs operating Linux Operating system, whereas a beginner might focus on functionality and practicality and hence go for a more barebones Linux build, such as Ubuntu, which has everything needed to begin to learn Linux.

The first week was a really good introduction to the wider computing landscape and helped us learn some fundamental differences between Windows and Linux. We were also able to learn about things such as Daemons and Kernels and how Hardware and Software can interact via virtualisation and the hypervisor. This stuff may sound complex now (and it is!!), but once you begin the course, you will start learning about it and by the end of the week, and the course as a whole, you will have the confidence to be able to talk about some of these topics in a way which surprises you!
