---
layout: post
title:  "Ping!!"
date:   2020-08-18
categories: jekyll update
---

## Ping, Traceroute, Telnet and RDP

It's amazing to look back now and see how much I learnt in 12 weeks, but at the time, I had learnt so much in the first 3 weeks of the course! When you are working full time everyday, with amazing peers for support and advice and a fantastic teacher, its definitely possible!

Before I go any further, a large part of the course is definitely making use of what you have learned, but also making sure you ask for help from peers or your teacher if you need it. Lots of people run into the same problems, and if discussions are being had in the slack group then reading and contributing to that can help people but also show you were you may have gone wrong if you are stuck too. 

In week 3, we learnt about the ping, Traceroute and Telnet commands, and in our practical laps, were connecting to another machine/server via the Remote Desktop Protocol. It was really cool to be able to see the windows layout and be able to control the cursor via my macbook! This required us to use the I.P. address to be able to connect into another server. Once in, you can control the computer as you would your own one. It was useful because it allowed us to connect to a machine that was already setup and properly optimised for us and the lab we were about to complete. This meant not having to install many things on our own local computer, and we were able to make use of the labs which had been setup for us.

However, later on in the course, when learning python, we did install and use the PIP package manager, and made use of homebrew and beautifulsoup in order to use screenscraping. That part of the course was amazing, and I managed to make a csv file which would load when I ran my python application in the terminal and this was linked to the premier league table! This meant that when I ran the script, an excel file would open with the premier league table, and I would be shown goals scored, goals conceeded, goal difference, games played, points, and any games in hand. It meant that I didn't have to keep navigating to the bbc website to see the ever changing results of games, particularly after project restart and there being many games in a short space of time! As an Aston Villa fan, this was very important to keep an eye on, as it was likely to be a very small margin to determine who stayed up and who was relegated (it was!!). 

This humble python script will continue to be used by myself for many years to come, and as long as the BBC Football website remains up, then the table will be able to be updated everytime I run the script. My advice to you further into the course is to find a project which you can build using python/scripting which has a practical, tangible use to you, as you will then persevere when you run into the inevitable roadblocks! It's also a really good thing to talk about in any future interviews and also to show to your friends and family! It might even get them interested in learning how to code!
