---
layout: post
title:  "Delay!!"
date:   2020-08-13
categories: jekyll update
---

## Spanner In The Works!!

Unfortunately, due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus, the start date for the course was pushed back. At first, it was scary, because I was unsure if I had been given an opportunity only for it to slip through my fingers, and I was unsure if the course would even go ahead!

My biggest fear was that it would be cancelled, and that all the hard work I had put into the application would go to waste. I was beginning to think that it was typical for me, in the sense that when something actually seemed to be going in the right direction for me for a change, that it was too good to be true and wouldn't last!

However, I was not to worry to much, as being on the course has educated me somewhat. I have learnt that The team at Generation & The Prince's Trust want us to succeed, and they were not about to mothball the course or disappoint us! An immense endeavour was undertaken by all concerned, and the movement to making the course remote friendly was well underway! 

At first, what looked like a major challenge would need to be overcome. Ordinarily, the course would be completed on site at The Prince's Trust building in Birmingham (from my understanding, those in The London cohorts complete the course at Amazon's plush offices near St Pancras Station!), however, due to the pandemic, this was out of the question, and the course would need to be completed remotely. This meant that everyone on the course would have different equipment, as they would not be using the standard computers in the classroom. 

The Prince's Trust and Generation were ultimately able to work really hard and ensure that those on the course were provided with the resources they needed, so thay everyone who had worked hard throughout the application, assessment and interview stages would be able to take up their hard fought for place and begin the first step in their journey on the way to the cloud. 

This meant that the course could start on June 15th 2020, 3 months later than first planned, but going ahead nonetheless! What was a really nice touch was that we weren't forgotten about and only given instructions the day before we started, but we were invited to 4 zoom meetings which took place weekly, a month prior to the beginning of the course, so that we could see some of our peers and ask any questions. This helped me to feel comfortable, and ensured that we felt like we hadn't been forgotten about. The slack channel also allowed us to see some of the discussions taking place and the types of things those on previous cohorts had got up to, and gave us an idea of what to expect.
