---
layout: post
title:  "Python"
date:   2020-08-19 
categories: jekyll update
---

## Snaking My Way Around Python!

Networking was a long module, and we also learnt about TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol & Internet Protocol) which are very important and determine what and how something is delivered. If you are interested in those terms whilst reading this blog, then you can find out a lot more on google or youtube! If not, then you will learn a lot on the course ;)

We then were able to move on to the python aspect of the course. Although I hadn't really studied tech before the course in any depth, python was something I had come across before and attempted to learn a bit about. I had heard about it prior to that at University, when a friend had studied computer science and was learning about it. Python takes its name from the British comedy series Monty Python, and has now become one of the most popular coding languages in the world. 

This is because it is written in a style much more represntative of prose, and therefore appears less mathsy, as can be seen in compiled coding languages. What takes many lines of code to do in some languages can be accomplished in just a few with python. Python is also great for automating tasks, like the one regarding the premier league football table I made and mentioned a few posts back!

It therefore makes a natural partner for use with Cloud services like AWS, and data science and applications which require some code to be used in conjunction with infrastructure. One good thing about learning to code using python is the introduction to structure that it gives you, as you need to be disciplined to ensure that all the semi-colons and quotation marks are in the right place and that they are not missing, as even one misplaced comma, colon or quotation mark can cause your code to not run!

Another good thing about python is the sheer number of ways it can be used, and can basically be applied to any personal project you can think of. You will find that there are many ways to achieve the same outcome in coding, and python can functions, loops, statements, lists and dictionaries can all be used in a variety of ways to accomplish a task. Different people will find different ways to achieve an objective, sometimes more efficiently than others and sometimes not so efficiently! However, the beauty of the internet is that you can use it to help you make things more efficient and streamlined.

It's important to have readable code and to leave comments in your code, firstly so that you don't forget the context yourself, but also because code is apparently read 10 times more than it is written, so it's important for others who will read the code to be able to get the context from a simple comment, but also it is good practice and etiquette. 

Personally, alongside the Cloud part of the course, learning how to get the basics right in python was really fun for me, and I was able to build a very useful screenscraping, Premier League table application using it and the internet. I hope to build more projects in due course, and upload them to github, so that others can see the code and maybe find a use for it themselves. Aside from making use of vidoes on the internet, a book I have used is "Python Crash Course", by Eric Matthes, which is freely available online and includes many projects and chapters of learning for you to use how you wish.
